document how to migrate between collections (#70243)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_collections.rst

.. _migrate_to_collection:

Migrating Ansible content to a different collection
====================================================

To migrate content from one collection to another, you need to create three PRs as follows:

#. Create a PR against the old collection to remove the content.
#. Create a PR against the new collection to add the files removed in step 1.
#. Update the ``ansible/ansible:devel`` branch entries for all files moved.

Removing the content from the old collection
----------------------------------------------

Create a PR against the old collection repo to remove the modules, module_utils, plugins, and docs_fragments related to this migration:

#. If you are moving an action plugin, include the corresponding module with documentation.
#. If you are moving a module, move any corresponding action plugin that should stay with it.

> #. Ensure ``meta/`` has updates to ``action_groups.yml`` and ``runtime.yml`` if they did in step #1.

Reviewer: How is this related to step 1?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Remove any entries about removed plugins from ``meta/action_groups.yml`` and ``meta/runtime.yml``. Ensure they are added into the new repo.
```

#. Remove sanity ignore lines from ``tests/sanity/ignore\*.txt``
#. Remove associated integration tests from ``tests/integrations/targets/`` and unit tests from ``tests/units/plugins/``.

> #. if you are moving from content from ``community.general``, remove entries from ``.github/BOTMETA.yml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. if you are moving from content from ``community.general`` or ``community.network``, remove entries from ``.github/BOTMETA.yml``.
```

#. Carefully review ``meta/runtime.yml`` for any entries, in particular deprecated entries.

> #. Update ``meta/runtime.yml`` to contain redirects for EVERY PLUGIN, pointing to the new collection name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Update ``meta/runtime.yml`` to contain redirects for EVERY PLUGIN, pointing to the new collection name.
#. If possible, do not yet add deprecation warnings to the new ``meta/runtime.yml`` entries, but only for a later major release. So the order should be:
    1. Remove content, add redirects in 3.0.0;
    2. Deprecate redirects in 4.0.0;
    3. Set removal version to 5.0.0 or later.
```

> Adding the content to the new collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning::

	Maintainers for the old collection have to make sure that the PR is merged in a way that it does not break user experience and semantic versioning:
	#. A new version containing the merged PR must not be released before the collection the content has been moved to has been released again, with that content contained in it. Otherwise the redirects cannot work and users relying on that content will experience breakage.
	#. Once 1.0.0 of the collection from which the content has been removed has been released, such PRs can only be merged for a new **major** version (i.e. 2.0.0, 3.0.0, etc.).

Adding the content to the new collection
```

-----------------------------------------

Create a PR in the new collection to:

#. Add ALL the files removed in first PR (from the old collection).
#. If it is an action plugin, include the corresponding module with documentation.
#. If it is a module, check if it has a corresponding action plugin that should move with it.
#. Check ``meta/ `` for relevant updates to ``action_groups.yml`` and ``runtime.yml`` if they exist.

> #. Carefully check ``tests/integration`` and ``tests/units``.

Reviewer 3: Add checks related to the files added into ``tests/integration`` and ``tests/units``. ?

.. _migrate_to_collection:

Migrating Ansible content to a different collection
====================================================

To migrate content from one collection to another, you need to create three PRs as follows:

#. Create a PR against the old collection to remove the content.
#. Create a PR against the new collection to add the files removed in step 1.
#. Update the ``ansible/ansible:devel`` branch entries for all files moved.

Removing the content from the old collection
----------------------------------------------

Create a PR against the old collection repo to remove the modules, module_utils, plugins, and docs_fragments related to this migration:

> #. If you are moving an action plugin, include the corresponding module with documentation.

Reviewer 4: I had to read this a couple of times before I understood it. How about this (updated to match the next items' phrasing)?
```suggestion
#. If you are moving an action plugin, remove the corresponding module that contains the documentation.
```

Author: @gundalow @felixfontein please review this edit. I think it should be 'move' not 'remove'

Reviewer: It should be removed from the old collection. This part is about removing things from the old collection, so I think it should say "remove". It should also say "removing" instead of "moving" in the beginning IMO.

#. If you are moving a module, move any corresponding action plugin that should stay with it.
#. Remove any entries about removed plugins from ``meta/action_groups.yml`` and ``meta/runtime.yml``. Ensure they are added into the new repo.
#. Remove sanity ignore lines from ``tests/sanity/ignore\*.txt``
#. Remove associated integration tests from ``tests/integrations/targets/`` and unit tests from ``tests/units/plugins/``.

> #. if you are moving from content from ``community.general`` or ``community.network``, remove entries from ``.github/BOTMETA.yml``.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. If you are moving from content from ``community.general`` or ``community.network``, remove entries from ``.github/BOTMETA.yml``.
```

Author: @felixfontein @gundalow - Alicia brought up some good points in discussing this with her.  This last four talk about removing items but aren't necessarily clear if you remove and forget, or if you are actually moving them, or redesigning them in the 2nd pr.  Can you help clarify this section?  for example:
 - ``meta/xx.yml`` - can you move them 'as is' to the new PR, or do you rewrite them somehow? 
- sanity ignore - I think these are clean removes. In the new PR, you may need to add similar (but not identical) entries into the new collection's ignore?
- tests - my guess is it's a rewrite in the new PR to account for FQCN etc?

Reviewer: * `meta/runtime.yml` is tricky - it depends a lot on the content. Usually, new entries have to be added, and potentially some entries have to be removed (but probably not moved).
* sanity ignore: it's probably a move, but definitely a remove in the source collection. Once ansible-test can be configured per collection, it might not be a simple re-add in the target collection anymore, but right now it is.
* tests: it's usually copying them, and adjusting all FQCNs (same as in the plugins/modules themselves, their examples and references contain FQCNs that should potentially be updated).

.. _migrate_to_collection:

Migrating Ansible content to a different collection
====================================================

To migrate content from one collection to another, you need to create three PRs as follows:

#. Create a PR against the old collection to remove the content.
#. Create a PR against the new collection to add the files removed in step 1.
#. Update the ``ansible/ansible:devel`` branch entries for all files moved.

Removing the content from the old collection
----------------------------------------------

Create a PR against the old collection repo to remove the modules, module_utils, plugins, and docs_fragments related to this migration:

#. If you are moving an action plugin, include the corresponding module with documentation.

> #. If you are moving a module, move any corresponding action plugin that should stay with it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. If you are moving a module, remove any corresponding action plugin that should stay with it.
```

Author: @felixfontein @gundalow same question - I think it should stay as move.

Reviewer: I'd argument for `remove` as before. It should definitely be the same word though, no matter which one :)

> #. Remove any entries about removed plugins from ``meta/action_groups.yml`` and ``meta/runtime.yml``. Ensure they are added into the new repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Remove any entries about removed plugins from ``meta/runtime.yml``. Ensure they are added into the new repo.
```
Action groups are now defined inside `meta/runtime.yml` as well. These entries cannot be moved that simply though, since action groups are currently limited to a certain hard-coded list of group(s) allowed per collection. (It's best if modules mentioned in action groups are not moved at all.)
